# Bike Sharing - Final Project Submission
This is the final project of the module "Belajar Analisis Data dengan Pyhton". In this final project, I analyzed data, made conclusions about business questions that have been determined, and created a dashboard. You can see the details of analyzing data and visualization on notebook [here]

## Bike Sharing Dataset Information
Bike sharing systems are new generation of traditional bike rentals where whole process from membership, rental and return back has become automatic. Through these systems, user is able to easily rent a bike from a particular position and return back at another position. Currently, there are about over 500 bike-sharing programs around the world which is composed of over 500 thousands bicycles. Today, there exists great interest in these systems due to their important role in traffic, environmental and health issues.
Apart from interesting real world applications of bike sharing systems, the characteristics of data being generated by these systems make them attractive for the research. Opposed to other transport services such as bus or subway, the duration of travel, departure and arrival position is explicitly recorded in these systems. This feature turns bike sharing system into a virtual sensor network that can be used for sensing mobility in the city. Hence, it is expected that most of important events in the city could be detected via monitoring these data.

Attribute Information:
Both hour.csv and day.csv have the following fields, except hr which is not available in day.csv

1. instant: record index
2. dteday : date
3. season : season (1: Winter, 2: Spring, 3: Summer, 4: Fall)
4. yr : year (0: 2011, 1:2012)
5. mnth : month ( 1 to 12)
6. hr : hour (0 to 23)
7. holiday : weather day is holiday or not (extracted from [Web Link])
8. weekday : day of the week
9. workingday : if day is neither weekend nor holiday is 1, otherwise is 0.
10. weathersit :
    * 1: Clear
    * 2: Mist
    * 3: Light Snow
    * 4: Heavy Rain 
11. temp : Normalized temperature in Celsius. The values are derived via (t-t_min)/(t_max-t_min), t_min=-8, t_max=+39 (only in hourly scale)
12. atemp: Normalized feeling temperature in Celsius. The values are derived via (t-t_min)/(t_max-t_min), t_min=-16, t_max=+50 (only in hourly scale)
13. hum: Normalized humidity. The values are divided to 100 (max)
14. windspeed: Normalized wind speed. The values are divided to 67 (max)
15. casual: count of casual users
16. registered: count of registered users
17. cnt: count of total rental bikes including both casual and registered

## File Structures
```
.
submission
├── dashboard
│   ├── dashboard.py
│   └── day_clean.csv
├── data
│   ├── Readme.txt
│   ├── day.csv
|   └── hour.csv
├── screenshots
|   ├── Screenshots (91).png
|   ├── Screenshots (92).png
|   ├── Screenshots (93).png
|   └── Screenshots (94).png
├── README.md
├── notebook.ipynb
└── requirements.txt
```
## Defining Question
1. Which season had the most bicycle rentals in 2011 - 2012?
2. What was the average bike rental in August? Which month has the highest average?
   
## Project Step-by-Step
1. Data Wrangling:
   - Gathering data
   - Assessing data
   - Cleaning data
2. Exploratory Data Analysis:
   - Defined business questions for data exploration
   - Create Data exploration
3. Data Visualization:
   - Create Data Visualization that answer business questions
4. Dashboard:
   - Set up the DataFrame which will be used
   - Make filter components on the dashboard
   - Complete the dashboard with various data visualizations
